If a station in a message forwarding system inadvertently forwards a message that is in violation of FCC rules, who is primarily accountable for the rules violation?
	A: The control operator of the packet bulletin board station
	B: The control operator of the originating station
	C: The control operators of all the stations in the system
	D: The control operators of all the stations in the system not authenticating the source from which they accept communications
Reference: 97.219


What frequencies are authorized to an amateur station operating under RACES rules?
	A: All amateur service frequencies authorized to the control operator
	B: Specific segments in the amateur service MF, HF, VHF and UHF bands
	C: Specific local government channels
	D: Military Auxiliary Radio System (MARS) channels
Reference: 97.407


Which of the following operating arrangements allows an FCC-licensed U.S. citizen to operate in many European countries, and alien amateurs from many European countries to operate in the U.S.?
	A: CEPT agreement
	B: IARP agreement
	C: ITU reciprocal license
	D: All these choices are correct
Reference: 97.5


What is the maximum permitted transmitter output power when operating a model craft by telecommand?
	A: 1 watt
	B: 2 watts
	C: 5 watts
	D: 100 watts
Reference: 97.215(c)


What is the minimum passing score on all amateur operator license examinations?
	A: Minimum passing score of 70%
	B: Minimum passing score of 74%
	C: Minimum passing score of 80%
	D: Minimum passing score of 77%
Reference: 97.503


When may an amateur station send a message to a business?
	A: When the total money involved does not exceed $25
	B: When the control operator is employed by the FCC or another government agency
	C: When transmitting international third-party communications
	D: When neither the amateur nor his or her employer has a pecuniary interest in the communications
Reference: 97.113


What is the purpose of digital store-and-forward functions on an amateur radio satellite?
	A: To upload operational software for the transponder
	B: To delay download of telemetry between satellites
	C: To store digital messages in the satellite for later download by other stations
	D: To relay messages between satellites

What signals SSTV receiving software to begin a new picture line?
	A: Specific tone frequencies
	B: Elapsed time
	C: Specific tone amplitudes
	D: A two-tone signal

During a VHF/UHF contest, in which band segment would you expect to find the highest level of SSB or CW activity?
	A: At the top of each band, usually in a segment reserved for contests
	B: In the middle of each band, usually on the national calling frequency
	C: In the weak signal segment of the band, with most of the activity near the calling frequency
	D: In the middle of the band, usually 25 kHz above the national calling frequency

What is one advantage of the JT65 mode?
	A: Uses only a 65 Hz bandwidth
	B: The ability to decode signals which have a very low signal-to-noise ratio
	C: Easily copied by ear if necessary
	D: Permits fast-scan TV transmissions over narrow bandwidth

Which of these digital modes has the narrowest bandwidth?
	A: MFSK16
	B: 170 Hz shift, 45-baud RTTY
	C: PSK31
	D: 300-baud packet

What is the cause of auroral activity?
	A: The interaction in the F2 layer between the solar wind and the Van Allen belt
	B: An extreme low-pressure area in the polar regions
	C: The interaction in the E layer of charged particles from the Sun with the Earth's magnetic field
	D: Meteor showers concentrated in the extreme northern and southern latitudes

What is the best time of day for transequatorial propagation?
	A: Morning
	B: Noon
	C: Afternoon or early evening
	D: Late at night

What does the space weather term G5 mean?
	A: An extreme geomagnetic storm
	B: Very low solar activity
	C: Moderate solar wind
	D: Waning sunspot numbers

Which of the following measures SWR?
	A: A spectrum analyzer
	B: A Q meter
	C: An ohmmeter
	D: An antenna analyzer

Which of the following methods measures intermodulation distortion in an SSB transmitter?
	A: Modulate the transmitter using two RF signals having non-harmonically related frequencies and observe the RF output with a spectrum analyzer
	B: Modulate the transmitter using two AF signals having non-harmonically related frequencies and observe the RF output with a spectrum analyzer
	C: Modulate the transmitter using two AF signals having harmonically related frequencies and observe the RF output with a peak reading wattmeter
	D: Modulate the transmitter using two RF signals having harmonically related frequencies and observe the RF output with a logic analyzer

How does a narrow-band roofing filter affect receiver performance?
	A: It improves sensitivity by reducing front end noise
	B: It improves intelligibility by using low Q circuitry to reduce ringing
	C: It improves dynamic range by attenuating strong signals near the receive frequency
	D: All these choices are correct

What is meant by the blocking dynamic range of a receiver?
	A: The difference in dB between the noise floor and the level of an incoming signal that will cause 1 dB of gain compression
	B: The minimum difference in dB between the levels of two FM signals that will cause one signal to block the other
	C: The difference in dB between the noise floor and the third-order intercept point
	D: The minimum difference in dB between two signals which produce third-order intermodulation products greater than the noise floor

How can radio frequency interference from an AC motor be suppressed?
	A: By installing a high-pass filter in series with the motor's power leads
	B: By installing a brute-force AC-line filter in series with the motor leads
	C: By installing a bypass capacitor in series with the motor leads
	D: By using a ground-fault current interrupter in the circuit used to power the motor

What is the half-power bandwidth of a resonant circuit that has a resonant frequency of 3.7 MHz and a Q of 118?
	A: 436.6 kHz
	B: 218.3 kHz
	C: 31.4 kHz
	D: 15.7 kHz

What is the phase angle between the voltage across and the current through a series RLC circuit if XC is 500 ohms, R is 1 kilohm, and XL is 250 ohms?
	A: 68.2 degrees with the voltage leading the current
	B: 14.0 degrees with the voltage leading the current
	C: 14.0 degrees with the voltage lagging the current
	D: 68.2 degrees with the voltage lagging the current

Which of the following represents an inductive reactance in polar coordinates?
	A: A positive magnitude
	B: A negative magnitude
	C: A positive phase angle
	D: A negative phase angle

How many watts are consumed in a circuit having a power factor of 0.2 if the input is 100 VAC at 4 amperes?
	A: 400 watts
	B: 80 watts
	C: 2000 watts
	D: 50 watts

What is the beta of a bipolar junction transistor?
	A: The frequency at which the current gain is reduced to 0.707
	B: The change in collector current with respect to base current
	C: The breakdown voltage of the base to collector junction
	D: The switching speed

What is an important characteristic of a Schottky diode as compared to an ordinary silicon diode when used as a power supply rectifier?
	A: Much higher reverse voltage breakdown
	B: More constant reverse avalanche voltage
	C: Longer carrier retention time
	D: Less forward voltage drop

What best describes a pull-up or pull-down resistor?
	A: A resistor in a keying circuit used to reduce key clicks
	B: A resistor connected to the positive or negative supply line used to establish a voltage when an input or output is an open circuit
	C: A resistor that ensures that an oscillator frequency does not drift
	D: A resistor connected to an op-amp output that prevents signals from exceeding the power supply voltage

What is current in the primary winding of a transformer called if no load is attached to the secondary?
	A: Magnetizing current
	B: Direct current
	C: Excitation current
	D: Stabilizing current

How is power supplied to the most common type of MMIC?
	A: Through a resistor and/or RF choke connected to the amplifier output lead
	B: MMICs require no operating bias
	C: Through a capacitor and RF choke connected to the amplifier input lead
	D: Directly to the bias voltage (VCC IN) lead

What is the approximate open-circuit voltage produced by a fully illuminated silicon photovoltaic cell?
	A: 0.1 V
	B: 0.5 V
	C: 1.5 V
	D: 12 V

What is a characteristic of a monostable multivibrator?
	A: It switches momentarily to the opposite binary state and then returns to its original state after a set time
	B: It produces a continuous square wave oscillating between 1 and 0
	C: It stores one bit of data in either a 0 or 1 state
	D: It maintains a constant output voltage, regardless of variations in the input voltage

How can an RF power amplifier be neutralized?
	A: By increasing the driving power
	B: By reducing the driving power
	C: By feeding a 180-degree out-of-phase portion of the output back to the input
	D: By feeding an in-phase component of the output back to the input

Which of the following factors has the greatest effect on the bandwidth and response shape of a crystal ladder filter?
	A: The relative frequencies of the individual crystals
	B: The DC voltage applied to the quartz crystal
	C: The gain of the RF stage preceding the filter
	D: The amplitude of the signals passing through the filter

What is the dropout voltage of an analog voltage regulator?
	A: Minimum input voltage for rated power dissipation
	B: Maximum output voltage drops when the input voltage is varied over its specified range
	C: Minimum input-to-output voltage required to maintain regulation
	D: Maximum that the output voltage may decrease at rated load

What is the function of a reactance modulator?
	A: To produce PM signals by using an electrically variable resistance
	B: To produce AM signals by using an electrically variable inductance or capacitance
	C: To produce AM signals by using an electrically variable resistance
	D: To produce PM or FM signals by using an electrically variable inductance or capacitance

How frequently must an analog signal be sampled by an analog-to-digital converter so that the signal can be accurately reproduced?
	A: At least half the rate of the highest frequency component of the signal
	B: At least twice the rate of the highest frequency component of the signal
	C: At the same rate as the highest frequency component of the signal
	D: At four times the rate of the highest frequency component of the signal

Why would a direct or flash conversion analog-to-digital converter be useful for a software defined radio?
	A: Very low power consumption decreases frequency drift
	B: Immunity to out-of-sequence coding reduces spurious responses
	C: Very high speed allows digitizing high frequencies
	D: All these choices are correct

What is the deviation ratio of an FM-phone signal having a maximum frequency swing of plus-or-minus 5 kHz when the maximum modulation frequency is 3 kHz?
	A: 60
	B: 0.167
	C: 0.6
	D: 1.67

Which digital code allows only one bit to change between sequential code values?
	A: Binary Coded Decimal Code
	B: Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code
	C: Excess 3 code
	D: Gray code

What is considered an acceptable maximum IMD level for an idling PSK signal?
	A: +10 dB
	B: +15 dB
	C: -20 dB
	D: -30 dB

What is antenna bandwidth?
	A: Antenna length divided by the number of elements
	B: The frequency range over which an antenna satisfies a performance requirement
	C: The angle between the half-power radiation points
	D: The angle formed between two imaginary lines drawn through the element ends

How does the total amount of radiation emitted by a directional gain antenna compare with the total amount of radiation emitted from a theoretical isotropic antenna, assuming each is driven by the same amount of power?
	A: The total amount of radiation from the directional antenna is increased by the gain of the antenna
	B: The total amount of radiation from the directional antenna is stronger by its front-to-back ratio
	C: They are the same
	D: The radiation from the isotropic antenna is 2.15 dB stronger than that from the directional antenna

How does the radiation pattern of a horizontally polarized 3-element beam antenna vary with increasing height above ground?
	A: The takeoff angle of the lowest elevation lobe increases
	B: The takeoff angle of the lowest elevation lobe decreases
	C: The horizontal beamwidth increases
	D: The horizontal beamwidth decreases

What is the function of a loading coil used as part of an HF mobile antenna?
	A: To increase the SWR bandwidth
	B: To lower the losses
	C: To lower the Q
	D: To cancel capacitive reactance

Which of these choices is an effective way to match an antenna with a 100-ohm feed point impedance to a 50-ohm coaxial cable feed line?
	A: Connect a 1/4-wavelength open stub of 300-ohm twinlead in parallel with the coaxial feed line where it connects to the antenna
	B: Insert a 1/2 wavelength piece of 300-ohm twinlead in series between the antenna terminals and the 50-ohm feed cable
	C: Insert a 1/4-wavelength piece of 75-ohm coaxial cable transmission line in series between the antenna terminals and the 50-ohm feed cable
	D: Connect a 1/2 wavelength shorted stub of 75-ohm cable in parallel with the 50-ohm cable where it attaches to the antenna

What is the approximate physical length of an air-insulated, parallel conductor transmission line that is electrically 1/2 wavelength long at 14.10 MHz?
	A: 7.0 meters
	B: 8.5 meters
	C: 10.6 meters
	D: 13.3 meters

What does SAR measure?
	A: Synthetic Aperture Ratio of the human body
	B: Signal Amplification Rating
	C: The rate at which RF energy is absorbed by the body
	D: The rate of RF energy reflected from stationary terrain

